At 1 Corinthians 213, the Apostle Paul wrote,
When we allow the publications of the faithful discrete slave to explain God's word,
this has the most powerful motivating effect on our minds and hearts.
That is the main objective here in the Theocratic schools department at Patterson, New York.
At first, it may seem straightforward enough.
However, the very nature of divine education is not static, rather, it's dynamic.
Because our God is dynamic.
As Jehovah's Purpose advances, so does our understanding.
As a result, everything taught at our Theocratic schools must be kept up to date.
And that's no small task.
In the past nine years, around 800,000 students will have attended just three schools in the field.
The School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
The School for Congregation Elders.
And the School for Circuit Overseers and Their Wives.
We want each student in every school to benefit from our most current understanding.
How does the schools department keep global curriculums current, unified, and motivating?
So one of the important tools that we have is our Watchtower Publications Index.
In the Index, there's a section entitled Beliefs Clarified.
And we have had quite a few clarifications in the last ten years.
So we follow that very, very closely.
And we're looking at when there is a belief clarified, how will that affect the outlines we have in our schools, what's being taught?
And do we need to make a change? How can we incorporate that into an outline?
And that way the instructors will always have the freshest and the most up-to-date materials to teach the classes.
Now we want to take special note of Galatians chapter 2 and especially verse 19.
Paul was not speaking about dying as a condemned criminal under the mosaic law as we previously understood.
Rather, Paul was highlighting and speaking about the being liberated from him.
There are times when a scripture point has changed, a citation needs to be changed, a reference is no longer appropriate.
And so the outlines have to be revised accordingly.
When a revision is made in one outline, all the other components in that unit, such as the instructor's outline,
the student's outline, and the study guide, must be checked, updated, and harmonized.
Then, that newly revised unit is sent around the world to the branch offices to be translated and implemented into around 150 languages in which these schools are taught.
And that's just for one lesson in one school.
However, units are often shared across multiple schools.
So when a change is made in one unit, for example, in Gilead, we have to make that change in all the other school curriculums where that unit appears.
In this way, all the schools stay harmonious and unified.
Since Gilead is our largest curriculum, it takes diligent effort to keep it fresh and motivating.
One of the things that's been used in Gilead for decades has been the use of visual aids.
Usually, there were handmade models, and an example of that is the tabernacle.
It just really helps students to understand what the tabernacle looked like, how it was made, how it was put together, and came apart.
As technology has developed, so now we have 3D models on the person's tablet or on the monitors in the classroom.
We can actually take them to the tabernacle.
We can turn the tabernacle, we can show it in different ways, things that just wasn't possible 80 years ago when Gilead got its start.
Another way the school's department works to keep the Gilead curriculum fresh and up-to-date is by incorporating our latest publications and video segments as soon as possible.
For example, the Daniel Dramma that was released at the regional convention in 2021.
We got the materials in September of 2021, and we were able to extract the portions that we wanted to be used in Gilead by December of 2021.
So it really only took 4 months to get that all processed and put into the curriculum.
Well, after seeing the dream or what it may have looked like, you can understand why Daniel wrote that Nebuchadnezzar was so agitated, he couldn't sleep.
Another example of our efforts to keep our Gilead curriculum fresh and up-to-date was the release of the Bible Study Aid, Enjoy Life Forever.
Shortly after it's released in 2021, it was soon put into the Gilead curriculum and we began teaching it in our workshops.
Well, we would certainly like to thank our two sisters for that excellent demonstration.
So how did the teacher use the Explore section of the book to help reach the heart of her student?
Since Gilead School and Pioneer School share similar lessons, the adjustments needed to be made to the Pioneer School curriculum as well.
Pioneers are going to absolutely love the updated curriculum for the Pioneer Service School.
Not only have references been updated, so the teachers and gods love book references have been updated to enjoy Life Forever Book.
But the workshops are now redesigned to help Pioneers start Bible studies using the new publication, to learn how to use its features effectively, and even how to adapt each lesson to their own Bible students.
The new Pioneer School will just build on their enthusiasm, their excitement to start Bible studies.
Any forms of the ministry they'll be looking to start Bible studies, and that enthusiasm is contagious.
So we know that it'll actually have a good effect on congregations worldwide.
Not only does the Theocratic Schools Department revise individual units in the curriculums, but at times entire schools.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, the curriculum for the school for circuit overseers and their wives was completely revised.
And once approved by the Teaching Committee, it was sent to the branch's worldwide for translation.
We were very excited when the Teaching Committee sent us a letter about the school for circuit overseers and their wives.
It was going to be an interactive school with workshops, new outlines, new videos, study guides.
When you have someone who loves Jehovah and the ministry, and you dig deep into the scriptures, it has a very powerful effect on the person.
It can even change your spiritual DNA as a saying goes.
We can see that it was going to be a very powerful course.
Combining spiritual matters with spiritual words throughout our global Theocratic Schools takes tremendous work.
But Jehovah is clearly blessing the efforts of everyone involved.
Well, it's obvious that Jehovah wants his people to be educated.
And the amount of effort and resources that the faithful slave have put into educating God's people is second to none.
People come to school, they attend the Theocratic School, and they're built up, but then they go, and they affect the people around them.
These ones that go through these schools, they want to talk about the things they learned, and they felt, and they experienced, and how it has affected them.
And they're going to talk about it.
You're going to hear it at your midweek meeting in here at the Watchdust study.
You see a brother working parts in his public talks.
Out in the ministry, they're sharing.
And you know, expression, deepens impression.
And so as they give, it deepens the truth in them even more.
Jehovah is making sure that throughout the globe, spiritual matters are explained with spiritual words, his inspired words, his textbook.
You may not have the circumstances to attend a Theocratic School beyond your midweek meeting, but we all have access to the same textbook.
So every time you make an updated note in your textbook, God's Word, whether it's a clarified belief or a point from our publications, you are in effect in school with us.
We are so thankful that Jehovah has helped us to keep divine education and sync with his unfolding purpose, no matter who we are or where we live.
And be assured, divine education is not winding down. It's just beginning.